NOTE: This is MY planning document, DO NOT TOUCH THIS UNLESS YOU ARE ME

"Worldline"
an AI storytelling experiment

Phase Zero:
infrastructure
we need: 
- DSPy signatures for everything
- an API key in .env and code to load it
- parallelized LLM API calls (might be provided by DSPy)
- I should actually look at what features DSPy has and see if I can use them
- basic file I/O functions ("write this to that file", "read this file")
- page counter
- embedding + batched embedding functions

Phase One:
"Worldlines"
These objects represent histories - sequences of recent events. One for objective events for the entire world, smaller ones for individual POVs that will include thoughts and stuff. 

These will integrate heavily with Libraries somehow, important events getting moved from Worldline to Library, and maybe Library recall methods might directly return data from Worldlines. 

Oh, and what the Fate Engine plans to happen needs a Worldline too, independent of what has already happened.

Wordlines in their entirety will NOT fit inside context windows, so only recent events + what the Library recall system brings up will be available to the LLM.

Worldline objects may also be used for system logging purposes, for debugging and such.

Phase Two:

"Libraries"
Library objects represent banks of knowledge. One central Library is created for each story reprsenting the absolute truth, and there are additional Libraries for each Persona or perhaps societal perspective. Theoretically, these rules could be broken but those are going to be very complex edge cases and I don't want to deal with them for now.

Under the hood, Libraries are going to use some sort of vector embedding recall system like I used in a past project. Not sure exactly how it'll work and it will probably need some tuning.

Libraries will have methods for recalling pertinent info, as well as adding new info. New info may conflict older info and each Library will have some tuning params to determine how this happens - different Personas will do this differently.


Phase Three:
"Personas"
Persona objects represent characters. I'm going with the odd names for a reason, which is just for fun and given what this project is about I figured it would fit thematically. Each Persona will have a Library object associated with it, representing their personal knowledge and perspective, as well as a Worldline documenting everything that's happened to them. Personas will also have methods that take a description of what is happening around them, and return a description of what they are going to think/do/say.

One Persona in particular (which isn't actually required to be there) is the Player, which will let a human user decide what to do. I wonder, what if an LLM was plugged in directly as the Player? What sort of character would it be?

Phase Four:
"Fate Engines"
A Fate Engine is effectively a GM or narrator, making plans for everything. It will need to make plans for the story, take actions from the Personas and move them around, record events, describe the world. Not to mention making nice descriptions for a reader to read - although maybe this is an edge case of making descriptions for the Personas.

In cases where many Personas are active, the Fate Engine will first query each Persona for how soon it wants to do something on a scale from 1 to 10, then randomly select a Persona out of those that returned the highest value to act.

Data passed around will near entirely be plain text for human readdability. Plus plain text is really what LLMs work with. 

The Fate Engine by default will not enforce many rules on what can and can't happen, users can provide in configuration files if they want specific rules as they are configuring the rest of the setting.

On the not of configuration, it'll be manually specified at first, but perhaps later the LLM will be able to assist with initialization and coming up with Persona background lore and stuff.

Phase Five:
other bits and pieces
things to maybe add: BGM, image generation, a nice UI with saving/loading, AI-assisted background info creation

Other Notes:
this code is going to be primarily network limited or API rate limited, not computationally expensive. I'll want some parallelization utilities so that I can make concurrent API calls. 

Not to mention I should also make sure on-the-fly model selection can occur so I'm not locked to just one, this should also help me deal with rate limits.

Oh, and the file extension will be ".wdln" for any files storing data. These files will probably contain representations of Worldline and Library objects, as these should be containing nearly the entire state of the story.

Time within a story will be counted in Pages. One page is one step taken by the Fate Engine, and is not necessarily a unit of time. As such, pages will be comparable but shouldn't be added and subtracted. I'll probably want some sort of page counter object separate of the Fate Engine for testing in early development.


Newer other notes:

Notes are small units of info with title, content, embedding, list of relevant page #s. 

worldline objects currently dont have very much functionality - libraries handle searching, they are almost just lists with names. 

the worldline/library split is pretty much only important because libraries are unordered and contain data that is not necessarily associated with a time, while worldlines are ordered. 

So maybe worldline subclasses library, and has the additional functionality that recall of recent events is prioritized?

plus maybe a worldline has a single constantly-updated Note, which is always running at the current time, which collects the last couple Notes into what happened most recently

but then params. libraries have importance weight + similarity weight, worldlines also need recency decay rate and recency weight, as well as how many things to bring up from the recent past

but if more things have happened recently then should more things be brought up? different things might have different recency decay weights. maybe just fixed number of recent events for now?