NOTE: This is MY planning document, DO NOT TOUCH THIS UNLESS YOU ARE ME

Figured now that plans_new's contents have been implemented i should figure out what to do next.
bc honestly i kinda never though the project would survive to this point.

so here goes:
Phase III: Personas
represent characters - focus on mental state, physical state is half handled by external system (fate engine probably)
generic base persona: observe(stuff / info) -> None, initiative() -> int (1 to 10), act() -> float
options:
- get an LLM to do it directly
- player control
- advanced Persona w/ worldline, library, sketchpad system in full

note: WL-LB-SP system similar to Fate Engine. Combine? Base class?
FE has WL, LB for main events, independent WL, SP for future plans + thought process documentation
FE's "observe" takes in what characters do, FE's "act" is what happens (external nice storytelling for reader, and also what each character observes)

but FE handles way more other stuff and so does Persona
so base class maybe?
or base function taking in list of Note objects w/ tools and running ReAct w/ some prompt?
hmm

also need to handle "desyncs" where LLM decides persona will do smth but then another character acts first
use save/pack system to do revert that sort of thing?
or just handle it within Persona, ensure that if observe is called twice that no actions get remembered that didnt happen
that would rely on the LLM to do that though

also independently of all this i might want to set up a UI for integration testing purposes
using my display_grid TUI library project, make a little thing for editing various types of Notes, w/ basic undo/redo
should that be done now or should i work on persona first?
hmm
decisions

i guess ive partially described phase iv: fate engines already so heres the rest
WL for story events, WL for plans/thought process, LB for world info, SP for in-the-moment plans / current thought
list of Personas to activate/deactivate + some way to decide which ones are active (just ask LLM? specialized tool for character-scene entry/exit passed to ReAct?)
as mentioned way to describe things to characters (functional, no flowery language, potentially long and detail heavy) and see what they do (tool? or end result of each ReAct run? prob latter)
and also way to describe things to a reader in a way that's good writing and stuff
maybe configurable description prompts that are persona-specific, so player persona gets nice descriptions and blind characters don't get visuals?

ok so each Persona has a desc_config string which is smth like "Describe as if telling a story, use figurative language in the right way and stuff" or "provide a purely functional description, add lots of detail but avoid metaphors and just say it all directly" or smth
agent.py contains run_agent(ctx: Context, notes: list[UID], tools: list[dspy.Tool], task: dspy.Signature) -> smth
actually maybe it's better if we have a WorldlineAgent class which subclasses dspy.Module, and takes in the context, notes, and tools in the constructor?
anyways whatever it is, when it's run it runs get context on every note (flushing and searching via existing context for Libraries before calling their get context), then gives a ReAct agent the tools, signature, and context and lets it do its thing

signatures that might be used:

for Personas:
observe(scene: str): initiative (int 1-10), short desc of action (str) - this is where planned action will be stored, not in anywhere else
act(): full desc of action (str)

for Fate Engine:
turn(): scenes (dict[UID of persona, str])
turn(persona_uid: UID, action: str): scenes (dict[UID of persona, str])
write(): scene (str)

oh also
what if an agent wants info that should exist but doesnt?
need fate engine to make smth up on the fly
agents get lookup() tool to call if they need info and really can't find it
lookup() then calls some fate engine method, maybe spins up another agent (hopefully no deadlocks or race conditions or other nonsense occurs but we'll need to be careful) and returns a string with the info (also records it in primary Library if it's not there yet either)
so ig persona lookup tool searches in fate engine library, fate engine lookup tool still searches in that library but then creates smth new and puts it in fate engine library
if this new info that should have been common knowledge is requested by another Persona later, FE library will have it and persona lookup will find it there ig
wait can persona lookup just = FE library search? (but like not touching loaded, so ig a few diffs)

ok so TUI things
display_grid module w/ Note list of dspy.Tool objects (i'd rather keep these separate so certain extra tools can be added/removed)
well two modules
one just displays a Note's content
the other displays tool output and lets you select and call tools
theming?
could go real basic (-+=| for lines, black and white)
could go with a simple color palette (dunno what it'd be) (does displaygrid need a better color palette system?) + all sharp corners, color change = border
could do smth fancier with unicode box-drawing chars too
make it look all hackery-y with # for lines, green on black?
changeable theme system? (might be good for displaygrid to have in general but gonna be kinda hard to make)
