NOTE: This is MY planning document, DO NOT TOUCH THIS UNLESS YOU ARE ME

so, the fate engine. the big thing. it's all for this.
interface:
inputs:
who did something
what they did
dict [who: how to write what they see]

output:
third-person desc
dict [who: what they see]

(and modifies internal state)

persona interface:
something that returns current scene notes (@property decorator, already done)
also turn(scene: str) -> tuple[initiative: int, action: str] (already done)
playerpersona needs to do 2 network calls / turn: 1 to get scene notes, one to get action - can't find a good way to do it in 1 call

FE, being Note subclass, will NOT have main coordination code, that will go elsewhere
FE just contains world state + writing system

anyways, configs.
multiple levels: system, story, scene
system: raw configs for search system and stuff, max iters for agents, things like that
story: user prefs for what happens in the story
scene: user prefs for how the story is told (similar to persona sys_scene_notes, also should exist for third person)
what if, for simplicity, third-person desc and who sees what handled at same time? just add "an outside observer" to POV?
hmm need context
probably should have recent scene entries in the context for the scene/storytelling step
thing is this is gonna take a while now

what if multiple parallel extraction systems operating off of the same trajectory?
DSPy's ReAct implementation has one Module do the actual tool calling, then another looks at what happened and writes the result
maybe the agent is told to figure out what happens and roughly what it looks like, then a bunch of smaller models write the scenes in parallel?
but they'd need to communicate or else inconsistencies could arise
maybe it's fine if just 1 or 2 prior scenes are in context (LM_HEAVY's context size is 32K, LM_MEDIUM's context size is 128K), and FE just has a single extraction module that does all of them?
which option would work best?

also, coordinator class to handle everything
what should it be called? Orchestrator? Conductor?

also FE needs extra tools and data
persona creation tool + set of persona UIDs
persona creation tool: what should it take? maybe FE just provides big description text, Persona class has initialize(text) which starts up recent history?

FE world initialization may need similar system, but that would take a variety of documents from the user - move init system to Actor?
init system already exists for Notes but that does a different thing, maybe this should be called called generate, not initialize?
would a single dspy signature work for both FE and Persona generation?
FE generation optional - user could manually create the starting state via editor

back to 3 levels of configs: what's the best way to set this up? story prefs need to be sent to all agents (will probably just be plain text, passed to Persona.turn()), scene prefs are sent through the Persona's interface, system prefs carried in context object
game engine UI will have place to edit story prefs, 3rd person scene prefs

also i was thinking
what if we swapped the current way worldlines are formatted for something a bit closer to markdown?
so a beat/closed arc at depth N looks like [N+1 #s] [title]:\n[content]
and open arc looks like that but w/ no newline, no content
this is kinda like how markdown headings work so maybe the LLM will understand it better
or do LLMs work nicer with JSON than markdown?
might need to tell LLM to not put markdown-like things into new beat objects so that it doesnt confuse itself later
no need for ">>>" to indicate current level bc closed arcs dont show their contents, they look like beats


updates:
switched heavy model to hermes 4 14B, GGUF quantization
so we will be making the worldline format swap
for fate engine, heavy model performs tool calling and reasoning, then returns a moderately sized precise desc of all events
WITHOUT calling initialize(), a second ChainOfThought module w/ medium model takes get_content() from FE's notes + heavy model's precise all event desc + scene prefs from each persona, returns scene for each persona
separate generation signatures for persona and fate engine, they are different enough

new Directive subclass of Note contains story instructions as text, no tools, every Actor stores the UID of the Directive
this means no need to add more arguments to Persona.turn()

Conductor object acts as global orchestrator, that's what i'll call it

conductor will use either threading or async (with to_thread bc io ops will probably be blocking bc i dont want to put the async syntax in fate engine and persona and stuff) to call reasoning agent, and at the same time request the current scene configs from the personas (this takes a network call for player personas), hopefully threading overheads wont be too bad
actually maybe it's better to just do those calls sequentially?
nope thread switching way faster

